DESIGN
PAUL ABRAHAMS
LUKE BADGER
ANDY RICHDALE
ART
SKETCHGOBLIN

"A sinister corruption has spread throughout the four great kingdoms, blackening
the hearts of once-loved Kings and Queens
and those that protect them. As brave adventurers you must work together using the
special powers of your champions and animal companions. Overthrow the corrupted
monarchs, purge them of their darkness
and add them to your ranks so that life can
be brought to the land once more."

AIM OF THE GAME

HOW TO PLAY

Regicide is a cooperative game where players work
together to defeat 12 powerful enemies. Players
take turns to play cards to the table to attack the
enemy and once enough damage is dealt, the
enemy is defeated. The players win when the last
King is defeated. But beware! Each turn the enemy
strikes back. Players will discard cards to satisfy the
damage and if they can’t discard enough, everyone
loses!

On their turn a player will play cards from their
hand to deal damage to the current enemy in order
to defeat it. The values on the cards determine
damage, while the suit provides a special power.

SETUP
Shuffle the 4 Kings ( ) and put them facedown in
a pile on the table. Shuffle the 4 Queens ( ) and
put them facedown on top of the Kings. Shuffle the
4 Jacks ( ) and put them facedown on top of the
Queens. This is the Castle deck.

Each turn has four steps:
Step 1 - Play a card or yield
Step 2 - Activate the suit power
Step 3 - Deal damage to the enemy and check
Step 4 - Suffer damage from the enemy
STEP ONE
Play a card from hand to attack the enemy

CLUBS
Double damage: During Step 3, damage dealt by
clubs counts for double. E.g., The 8 of Clubs deals 16
damage.
SPADES
Shield against enemy attack: During Step 4, reduce
the attack value of the current enemy by the attack
value played. The shield effects of spades are
cumulative for all spades played against this enemy
by any player, and remain in effect until the enemy
is defeated.
Suit powers are mandatory and cannot be skipped.
STEP THREE
Deal damage and check to see if the enemy is
defeated

Place the Castle deck in the centre of the table and
turn the top card face up to reveal a Jack. This will
become the current enemy.
Shuffle together all the cards numbered 2 to 10
with the 4 Animal Companions ( ) and a number
of Jesters ( ) based on the number of players (see
table below) to form your Tavern deck.
The Tavern deck is where cards are dealt and drawn
from. During the game place any discarded cards
into a shared discard pile beside the Tavern deck.
Deal cards to each player up to their maximum hand
size.
Players
1
2
3
4

Jesters
0
0
1
2

Play a card from your hand onto the table in front of
you. The number of the card determines the attack
value. So if a 7 of Hearts is played, the attack value is
7. Instead of playing a card a player may choose to
yield (see Yielding).
STEP TWO
Activate the played card’s suit power

Max. Hand Size
8
7
6
5

The player to have most recently committed
regicide goes first.
Playing a card to damage the enemy also grants a
power associated with the suit of that card. Powers
from red suits are resolved straight away, powers
from black suits take effect in later steps.
HEARTS
Heal from the discard: Shuffle the discard pile then
count out a number of cards facedown equal to the
attack value played. Place them under the Tavern
deck (no peeking!) then, return the discard pile to
the table, faceup.
DIAMONDS
Draw cards: The current player draws a card. The
other players follow in clockwise order drawing one
card at a time until a number of cards equal to the
attack value played have been drawn. Players that
have reached their maximum hand size are skipped.
Players may never draw cards over their maximum
hand size. There is no penalty for failing to draw
cards from an empty Tavern deck.

Enemy
Jack
Queen
King

Attack
10
15
20

Health
20
30
40

Damage equal to the attack value of the played
card is now dealt to the enemy. Check to see if the
total damage dealt by all players so far is equal to
or greater than the enemy’s health. For example if
facing a Jack and one player deals 9 damage in their
turn, then another player deals 12 damage in their
turn, the total damage currently dealt would be 21
so the enemy would be defeated.
If the enemy is defeated, do the following:
(i) Place the enemy in the discard pile. If the players
have dealt damage exactly equal to the enemy’s
health, place it facedown on top of the Tavern deck
instead.
(ii) Place all cards played by players against the
enemy in the discard pile.
(iii) Turn the next card of the Castle deck face up.
(iv) The player who has just defeated the enemy
skips Step 4 and begins a new turn against the
enemy just revealed, starting at Step 1.
STEP FOUR
Suffer damage from the enemy by discarding
cards

If not defeated, the enemy attacks the current player
by dealing damage equal to that enemy’s attack
value. Remember to reduce the enemy’s attack
value by the total value of Spades that players have
played against the enemy.

The current player must discard cards from their
hand with a total value at least equal to the enemy’s
attack value. Discard the cards one at a time, faceup
to the discard pile. Animal Companions (A) have a
value of 1 and the Jester a value of 0 when discarded
to cover damage. If the player cannot discard
enough cards to satisfy the damage, they die and all
players lose the game. It’s ok to have an empty hand.
After suffering damage, the next player in clockwise
order begins their turn, starting at Step 1.

ENEMY IMMUNITY

YIELDING

Each enemy is immune to the suit powers of
cards played against them which match their suit.
For example, players will not draw cards when a
diamond is played against the Jack of Diamonds
(however the number is still added to the damage
total). The Jester can be played to cancel an enemy’s
immunity.

During Step 1 it may be beneficial to yield instead of
playing a card. To yield simply say “Yield” and move
directly to Step 4 (Suffer damage from the enemy),
skipping Steps 2 and 3. A player may not yield if
every other player has yielded on their last turn. For
example, in a three player game, if two players have
yielded in a row the third player may not yield.

COMMUNICATION

ANIMAL
COMPANIONS
In Step 1, Animal Companions can be played on
their own, but may also be paired with one other
card (except the Jester). Animal Companions count
as 1 towards the attack total and their suit power
is also applied. For example, when playing the 8 of
Diamonds with the Animal Companion of Clubs the
attack value is 9 and the effects of both suit powers
are applied for 9: 9 cards are drawn and 18 damage
is dealt. Any time where both a Hearts power and
Diamonds power are resolved together, resolve
the Hearts healing before drawing with Diamonds.
Animal Companions can also be paired with one
other Animal Companion. If you play an Animal
Companion with another card of the same suit, you
only apply the suit power once.

Enemy suit power immunity
(Spades won’t block damage
against Jack of Spades)

PLAYING THE
JESTER
In Step 1 when playing a card the Jester may be
played (always on its own).
The Jester has an attack value of 0. The power of the
Jester is that it negates the immunity of the enemy
meaning the suit powers of cards with the same suit
as the enemy will now take effect when played. After
playing the Jester, skip steps 3 and 4 then, instead
of play moving to the next player the player of the
Jester chooses any player to go next.

After a Jester is played the normal restrictions on
player communication are temporarily changed.
Until the next player starts their turn players may
express their desire (or reluctance) to go next in
a general way. For example you may say “I have a
good play” or “I would rather not go next”. You may
still not reveal the contents of your hand.

GAME END
The game ends when the players win by defeating
the last King or when the players lose because a
player is unable to satisfy the damage dealt by an
enemy. The players also lose if any player is unable
to play a card or yield on their turn.

SOLO PLAY
When playing with only 1 player note the following
rule changes:

COMBOS
In Step 1, instead of playing a single card, players
can combine cards together in sets of 2, 3 or 4 of the
same number as long as the combined total of the
cards played equals 10 or less. Animal Companions
cannot be added to a combo or played as a combo
on their own; they can only ever be paired with
one other card (which could be another Animal
Companion). So players can play a pair of 2s, 3s,
4s, or 5s, triple 2s and 3s, or quadruple 2s. When
these cards are played together all suit powers are
resolved at the total attack value. For example, if a
player plays the 3 of Diamonds, Spades and Clubs
together, players will draw 9 cards, reduce the
enemy’s attack value by 9 and deal 18 damage. Any
time where both a Hearts power and Diamonds
power are resolved together, resolve the Hearts
healing before drawing with Diamonds.

Players may not communicate to the other players
any information which may reveal or suggest the
contents of their hand. They may however remind
other players of any public information such as
how many cards they have in their hand. Some
examples of allowed communication are: “I have
two cards in hand” or “We only have 3 cards left in
the Tavern deck!”. Some examples of prohibited
communication are: “I’ve got a 10 of clubs” or “I hope
someone plays a Diamond soon!” or “If you play a
Heart then I can probably help us get some cards in
hand” or “Don’t kill that enemy, leave them for me!

After playing the Jester the normal restrictions on
player communication (see Communication) are
temporarily changed. Until the next player starts
their turn players may express their desire (or
reluctance) to go next in a general way. For example
you may say “I have a good play” or “I would rather
not go next”. You still may not reveal the contents of
your hand.
If the Jester is played against a spades enemy,
spades played prior to the Jester will begin reducing
the attack value of the enemy however clubs played
prior to the Jester against a clubs enemy will not
count for double.

DRAWING A
DEFEATED ENEMY
Jacks in hand count as a 10, Queens in hand count
as a 15 and Kings in hand count as a 20. These
values are applied when either playing them as an
attack card or discarding them from hand to suffer
damage. Their suit power is applied as normal when
played.

Set up the game as per usual but place the two
Jesters to the side. You play with a single hand
limited to 8 cards. Play as normal, playing each
turn one after the other. A Jester can be flipped to
activate the following power: “Discard your hand
and refill to 8 cards - this does not count as drawing
for the purpose of enemy diamond immunity.”
Since you have two Jesters this can be done twice
per game. Flipping the Jesters in this way does not
cancel enemy immunity. You are allowed to use the
Jester power a) at the start of Step 1 before you play
a card or b) at the start of Step 4 before you have to
take damage.
A win having used 2 Jesters = Bronze Victory
A win having used 1 Jester = Silver Victory
A win having used 0 Jesters = Gold Victory

LEARN TO PLAY!

DOWNLOAD THE FREE
‘REGICIDE COMPANION’ APP!

